hi guys my name is myths and I'm going
to show you how to use the Windows
snipping tool it comes with windows
vista and what it does is take
screenshots of your desktop okay now
I've got a little shortcut to the
snipping tool here on my quick launch
toolbar if you haven't got it it's quite
simple to find it you just go to the
Start menu here and press on it and then
press on all programs and then look for
accessories so press on that and it'll
be in that folder there so there it is
there now when you first press on it
it'll give you a message saying do you
want to add this short cut to the quick
launch toolbar and I just said yes so
that's how i got my shortcut down here
so if i want to use it all i have to do
is press on it ok so what i'm going to
do first is I'm going to take a picture
of the desktop I'll show you so what
we're going to do is press on this
little icon and this little box comes up
ok now we've got a few choices here it
says freeform snip rectangle snip
windows snip ok now at the moment it's
on windows snip so if you go around to
the edge of the screen you can see this
big red line around it ok now we don't
want the whole window so what we're
going to do is press on rectangle snip
for now ok so there's the dot on
rectangle snip so what we're going to do
now is go and choose what part we want
we're going to press the left mouse
button and draw a rectangle around the
things that we want to take a screenshot
of ok and as soon as you let your finger
off there's your screenshot there's the
preview of it and now you can edit it or
add right into it ok so what we'll do is
I'll quickly add some writing to it will
choose a blue pen ok
and also we'll just go and customize the
pin because we'll choose blue okay down
here medium point pen and round chip
that will do okay so now we can draw
some lines saying up to this or you know
an arrow out here or whatever out here
now what this is going to do is actually
save everything around here as well okay
so this is the good thing about this you
can go outside the screenshot and put
arrows underline stuff like that we can
change the color of the pen go to red
pen now you know do whatever you want go
like that you basically do draw your own
diagrams or anything like that now if
you put the wrong arrow somewhere you
just press on the eraser and it'll take
it away okay basically take away
everything it doesn't actually have an
undo button that just has an eraser okay
right so you can also email it copy it
save it now to save it i'll just show
you quickly you press on it now you've
got a few choices on how you want to
save it here you can you name it what
you want to call it okay or just press
on that they're just call it that and
just press this drop-down arrow here to
see what choices you have jpg gif HTML I
I picked the PNG because portable
Network graphics it's good for websites
okay because that's what I'm doing I'm
doing screenshots for websites so pick
that one that's fine and then press save
okay and it's done so do
saved where I saved it now I'll close
that and I'll show you another example
will open the snipping tool again in the
quick launch toolbar and this time I'm
going to do a free-form snip and I'm
going to go and draw of what I want to
take a screenshot of okay and when I
join it and get to the end and take my
finger off it's done okay now here's my
screenshot pretty interesting screenshot
but if you had a use for it it's pretty
handy it's very handy in fact you can
cut out all sorts of things yeah not I
haven't found a use for it as yet but
I'm sure I will you can save it and do
all the same things but if you don't
want it you just press the cross and
then say no you don't want to save it
okay the windows snipping tool only
comes with windows vista it's not
available in Windows XP so if you're
looking for it in the menu you won't
find it I think it's great it's a fun
little tool and it's a new one it's also
got some options here you can change if
you like nothing special it's just a
small little program it's got a couple
of things here always copy snips to the
clipboard so basically that's what it's
doing automatically include the UL URL
below snips see when you're on a webpage
you can go and snip something off there
if you like yeah oh I'm not going to get
into copyright laws but yeah it's
possible ok I hope you enjoyed that and
I hope it helps